Newsletters: add 150 (2021-05-26) (#577)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2021-05-26-newsletter.md

release candidates.*

- [Eclair 0.6.0][] FIXME:harding

- [LND 0.13.0-beta.rc2][LND 0.13.0-beta] is a release candidate that
  adds support for using a pruned Bitcoin full node, allows receiving
  and sending payments using Atomic MultiPath ([AMP][topic multipath payments]),
  and increases its [PSBT][topic psbt] capabilities, among other improvements
  and bug fixes.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1
repo], [Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo],
[Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay Server][btcpay server repo],
[Bitcoin Improvement Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning
BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #21843][] rpc: enable GetAddr, GetAddresses, and getnodeaddresses by network FIXME:jnewbery

- [Eclair #1810][] Make payment_secret mandatory FIXME:dongcarl

- [Eclair #1774][] extends Java's built-in `SecureRandom()` [CSPRNG][]
  function with a secondary source of weaker randomness.  The weaker

>   randomness is hashed and the hash digest xored with the primary

Reviewer: (maybe) s/xored/XORed/

Author: I don't think we've historically uppercased other boolean terms, so we probably shouldn't start now.  If you're really worried about this, I can rephrase to use "xor" without a suffix.

Author: (FWIW, I just searched Google and DuckDuckGo for "xored" and got reasonable results, so anyone who does get confused should be able to straighten themselves out pretty quickly.)

Reviewer: not worried about it, so long as no one thinks we meant to write "bored" instead :stuck_out_tongue:

  standardized script does mean more data needs to be backed up, the
  actual difference is small---most of the data in a typical multisig
  descriptor will be the extended public keys (xpubs) that need to be
  backed up by each party to a multisig anyway, so the additional
  information about the script template and the descriptor's checksum
  only add a small amount of overhead by comparison.

- [BIPs #1025][] assigns [BIP88][] to the standardized format described
  in [Newsletter #105][news105 path templates] for describing what BIP32
  key derivation paths a wallet should support.  Path templates provide
  a compact way for the user to describe to the wallet what paths they
  want to use. The compactness of path templates makes it easy to back
  up the template along with the seed, helping prevent users from losing
  funds.  An additional feature of the proposed path templates is the
  ability to describe derivation limits (e.g. that a wallet should
  derive no more than 50,000 keys in a particular path), which can make
  it practical for a recovery procedure to scan for bitcoins received to
  all possible wallet keys, eliminating concerns about gap limits in HD

>   wallets

Reviewer: s/wallets/wallets./

- [BIPs #1097][] assigns [BIP129][] to the Bitcoin Secure Multisig Setup
  (BSMS) described in [Newsletter #136][news136 bsms], which explains

>   how wallets, particularly hardware wallets, can securely exchange the

Reviewer 2: perhaps s/wallets/signers/ :

```suggestion
  how signers, particularly hardware signers, can securely exchange the
```

  feature is supported across all major implementations and is mandatory for
  payments to [LND][LND paysec] and [Rust-Lightning][RL paysec].

- [Eclair #1774][] extends Java's built-in `SecureRandom()` [CSPRNG][]
  function with a secondary source of weaker randomness.  The weaker
  randomness is hashed and the hash digest xored with the primary
  randomness so that, even if `SecureRandom()` produces predictable
  results due to some bug discovered in the future, there's a chance
  Eclair will continue to have enough entropy so that its cryptographic
  operations remain unexploitable.

- [BIPs #1089][] assigns [BIP87][] to a proposal previously [discussed
  on the mailing list][spigler independent] for creating a standardized
  set of [BIP32][] paths for multisig wallets regardless of their
  multisig parameters, what address type they use, or other script-level
  details.  Instead, users of the proposed standard store those details
  in an [output script descriptor][topic descriptors].
  This eliminates the need for wallets to implement multiple different
  standards for slight variations on multisig (e.g. [BIP45][BIP45] and

>   the `m/48'` standard) or create new standards for things that can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the `m/48'` standard) or create new standards for things that can be
```

  handled by descriptors.  Although using a descriptor rather than a
  standardized script does mean more data needs to be backed up, the
  actual difference is small---most of the data in a typical multisig
  descriptor will be the extended public keys (xpubs) that need to be
  backed up by each party to a multisig anyway, so the additional
  information about the script template and the descriptor's checksum
  only add a small amount of overhead by comparison.

- [BIPs #1025][] assigns [BIP88][] to the standardized format described
  in [Newsletter #105][news105 path templates] for describing what BIP32

>   key derivation paths a wallet should support.  Path templates provide
>   a compact way for the user to describe to the wallet what paths they
>   want to use. The compactness of path templates makes it easy to back

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  key derivation paths a wallet should support.  Path templates provide
  a compact way for the user to specify which paths they
  want to use. The compactness of path templates makes it easy to back
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #150'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2021/05/26/
name: 2021-05-26-newsletter
slug: 2021-05-26-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter announces a change of networks for several IRC
channels and celebrates Optech's 150th newsletter.  Also included are
our regular sections with popular questions and answers from the Bitcoin

> StackExchange, new software releases and release candidates, and notable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Stack Exchange, new software releases and release candidates, and notable
```

  meetings, and general discussion will be moved to `#bitcoin-core-dev`
  on the [Libera.Chat][] network.  Several other channels related to
  Bitcoin and LN are also moving.  For help finding the current network
  for various channels, see the Bitcoin Wiki's [list of IRC channels][].
  If you operate a channel that's moving and don't have a Wiki account
  to update that list yourself, please let the editors know in
  `#bitcoin-wiki` on Libera.

## Celebrating Optech Newsletter #150
*by [John Newbery][], Founder, Optech*

This is the 150th regular Optech weekly newsletter that we've written for the
Bitcoin technical community. Pausing only for short breaks around the Christmas
holidays, we've published digests of the most important events in Bitcoin
and Lightning development every week since June 2018.

Optech was started with some very simple goals: to help Bitcoin businesses adopt
technologies that allow Bitcoin to scale, and to highlight the amazing
technical work happening in the open source Bitcoin community. Although we
couldn't foresee exactly what form that would take three years ago, it's a
mission that we continue to believe in, and that guides all the work we do.

> Since June 2018, we've:

Reviewer 3: Maybe:

```suggestion
Since June 2018, we have:
```

Reviewer 2: I think either "we have" or "we've" are fine.

> * Published 150 [newsletters][], numerous [blog posts][] and field reports,
>   a [special series on bech32][bech32], and an [interactive taproot workshop][]. In

Reviewer 3: Maybe:
```suggestion
* Published 150 [newsletters][], numerous [blog posts][], field reports,
  a [special series on bech32][bech32], and an [interactive taproot workshop][]. In
```

Reviewer 2: The 'numerous' refers to both 'blog posts' and 'field reports', so keeping this as one list item.

of Bitcoin Core PR Review Club. As well as Mike and Jon, [Carl Dong][], [Adam
Jonas][], [Mark Erhardt][] and I contribute occasional PR summaries and review
each week's newsletter to try to ensure the content we produce is accurate and
clear.

Special thanks to [Shigeyuki Azuchi][], who translates our newsletters into
Japanese, and [Akio Nakamura][] who has also translated and reviewed our
Japanese material.

Thanks to all the members of the Bitcoin community -- too numerous to name
individually -- who have reviewed our newsletters, helped us understand
concepts, and opened issues and PRs when we've made mistakes.

All of this work is made possible by our generous [supporters][], primarily
our [founding sponsors][] - Wences Casares, John Pfeffer and Alex Morcos.

Finally, thank you, our readers. We love being part of this community and
contributing to this ecosystem. Knowing how valuable this resource is to so many
people, and hearing feedback from our readers is hugely rewarding for us. If you
want to contribute, or have suggestions for how we can improve, please don't
hesitate to contact us at [info@bitcoinops.org][info].

> ## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin StackExchange

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange
```

> *[Bitcoin StackExchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
```

    * [BIP141][bip141 commitment]'s `OP_RETURN` witness commitment

    * additional `OP_RETURN` commitments, as in [merge mining][se 273 merge
      mining] and other protocols

- [fundrawtransaction - what is it?]({{bse}}105811)
  Pieter Wuille illustrates what the `fundrawtransaction` RPC does by providing
  4 examples of how to send coins using the RPC.

- [What previously existing technologies made Bitcoin possible?]({{bse}}106000)
  Murch provides a summary, based on the [Bitcoin's Academic Pedigree
  paper][bitcoins academic pedigree paper], of the existing technological ingredients
  that were combined to create Bitcoin. These technologies are linked
  timestamping/verifiable logs, byzantine fault tolerance, proof of work,
  digital cash, and public keys as identities.

- [How can I follow the progress of miner signaling for Taproot activation?]({{bse}}105853)
  In addition to Hampus Sjöberg's [https://taproot.watch][taproot watch website] website, Bitcoin
  Core users can use `getblockchaininfo` to get a count of signaling blocks and
  `getblock`'s versionhex field, where the signaling version bits reside, to
  observe signaling.

> - [What block space savings would we get for coinjoins (and payjoins) if we had cross input signature aggregation?]({{bse}}106224)

Reviewer 3: I was planning on writing a better answer for that one anyway, I can make sure that it happens today.

I would agree, though, that we might want to drop it otherwise.

> - [What block space savings would we get for coinjoins (and payjoins) if we had cross input signature aggregation?]({{bse}}106224)

Reviewer 2: I look forward to reading it :)

We can either include it here or in next month's SE section. It's not going to go out of date.

  4 examples of how to send coins using the RPC.

- [What previously existing technologies made Bitcoin possible?]({{bse}}106000)
  Murch provides a summary, based on the [Bitcoin's Academic Pedigree
  paper][bitcoins academic pedigree paper], of the existing technological ingredients
  that were combined to create Bitcoin. These technologies are linked
  timestamping/verifiable logs, byzantine fault tolerance, proof of work,
  digital cash, and public keys as identities.

- [How can I follow the progress of miner signaling for Taproot activation?]({{bse}}105853)
  In addition to Hampus Sjöberg's [https://taproot.watch][taproot watch website] website, Bitcoin
  Core users can use `getblockchaininfo` to get a count of signaling blocks and
  `getblock`'s versionhex field, where the signaling version bits reside, to
  observe signaling.

- [What block space savings would we get for coinjoins (and payjoins) if we had cross input signature aggregation?]({{bse}}106224)
  Murch calculates potential WU for P2TR coinjoin transactions for participants
  utilizing two input, two output payments using cross input signature aggregation as:

>   - 1 participant coinjoin per participant cost: 783 WU

Author: Maybe call this "Base cost for two inputs and two outputs" since a "1 participant coinjoin" doesn't make sense by itself.

Author: Also, our style guide says "use vbytes rather than weight units, unless using weight units would significantly improve conciseness or comprehensibility."  You can just divide all of @Xekyo's figures by 4 to get vbytes (up to you whether or not to include any decimal remainders; I usually include them).

If you really want to use weight units (which is fine by me), I suggest at least slWU/Weight Units (WU)/ for the first occurrence of the term.

Reviewer 2: This question was removed. Hopefully we can include it in next month's SE section.

[Bitcoin Improvement Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning
BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Eclair #1810][] makes it mandatory for peers to signal and comply with the
  `payment_secret` feature bit. The `payment_secret` feature thwarts the

>   de-anonymization attack whereby intermediary peers on a payment path can

Reviewer 4: Do we have a good Optech reference to provide for this attack? @dongcarl

Reviewer 5: Hmm... Looks like we have:
https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/12/04/#c-lightning-3259
https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2020/11/04/#c-lightning-4162

Reviewer 5: Will update, sec
